So time to make our items editable by clicking them. In our shopping list component where we have our
items, I want to add a click listener to the item, so that we can click it. Here,
I want to call onEditItem,
of course any name you like, simply copy it.
Now here though, I also want to get the ID of the ingredient and I need the ID so that I'm later
able to replace the correct one in the array of ingredients which is managed in a service.
So let's extract the ID like this,
i equals index to get the index of the current iteration and let's pass it here as an argument.
Now I can copy this name and go into my TypeScript code, here
I want to add onEditItem and I know that I will get the index here which will be a number
and now there are a couple of ways of getting this information,
this index to the shopping edit component which is in the end where I want to get it to because that
is where we are editing.
I will use the service or specifically, a subject in that service to which I can listen in the shopping
edit component.
So I will add a new subject in the shopping lists service and that I'll name startedEditing,
sounds like a fitting name.
It'll be a new subject and subject is a generic type,
it will hold a number in the end,
that's all I need to change here. With this subject created in onEditItem, I can reach out to the
shopping list service which we already inject and then use startedEditing and emit a new value, my index,
which will make sure that now we pass on this index
to our subject for now so that I can listen to it in some other place, that other place is going to be in
the shopping edit component. Here in ngOnInit,
this sounds like a good place to do the listening.
I'm already injecting the shopping list service, so here I will subscribe to my startedEditing subject and
of course I should clean up the subscription
if we destroy this component, so I will store it in a property named subscription which is of type subscription
which I should import from rxjs/subscription and I'll move up
both these imports here to the top of the file.
So with that, we got our subscription property. As I just said, I want to store my subscription in this
property
and now I will implement onDestroy,
therefore you should import this interface from @angular/core and then also implement ngOnDestroy
to clean up the subscription,
just to be sure that you don't create a memory leak.
So that's the clean up work
but what should happen inside of this?
Well here we know that we will receive the number of the item we're about to edit and this will be triggered
whenever we submit the startedEditing information.
We also know something else,
we only get here into this anonymous function
if startedEditing was triggered,
so if we are editing.
So that is an important information when it comes to what we should do once the form is submitted, should
we create a new item or edit an existing one?
So I want to store the mode we're in here in a property, I'll name it editMode and by default,
it's false. Here
however I will set editMode to true because we are editing, right?
So with this, we now get the index and we are editing,
I also want to store the index of the item we're editing. So edited
item index could be a property name,
it will be a number in the end and it will get initialized here,
editedItemIndex will be the index we're getting here as an argument.
So with that, we got a lot of important information.
Now with that information, I want to load the item we're about to edit, so that is something I'll do in
the next lecture.